Docs: add new LLM providers (agentgateway 1.3) (#636)
agentgateway/website: assets/agw-docs/pages/agentgateway/llm/providers/openai-compatible.md

Configure LLM providers that expose the OpenAI Chat Completions API but do not have a first-class provider type in the {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}} API.

## Overview

In {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/agentgateway.md" >}}, you configure an OpenAI-compatible provider by setting `ai.provider.openai` and pointing it at the provider's `host`, `port`, and `path`. Use the `path` field when the provider serves chat completions from a non-standard path.

{{< version include-if="1.3.x" >}}
{{< callout type="info" >}}
In standalone mode, many of these providers have a first-class `provider:` shortcut, such as `provider: groq`, that automatically fills in the base URL. The Kubernetes {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}} API does not yet expose those shortcuts, so in Kubernetes you configure them with the `ai.provider.openai` shape shown on this page.
{{< /callout >}}

> {{< /version >}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

   metadata:
     name: llm-backend
     namespace: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
   spec:
     ai:
       provider:
         openai:
           model: meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision-Instruct-Turbo
         host: api.together.xyz
         port: 443
         path: /v1/chat/completions
     policies:
       auth:
         secretRef:
           name: llm-provider-secret
       tls:
         sni: api.together.xyz
   EOF
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab tabName="xAI" %}}
   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
   apiVersion: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/api-version.md" >}}
   kind: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}}
   metadata:
     name: llm-backend
     namespace: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
   spec:
     ai:
       provider:
         openai:
           model: grok-2-latest
         host: api.x.ai
         port: 443
         path: /v1/chat/completions
     policies:
       auth:
         secretRef:
           name: llm-provider-secret
       tls:
         sni: api.x.ai
   EOF
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

   {{% reuse "agw-docs/snippets/review-table.md" %}}

   | Setting | Description |
   |---------|-------------|

>    | `ai.provider.openai.model` | Optional upstream model override. Omit it to pass the client-provided model through. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `ai.provider.openai.model` | Optional upstream model override. Omit this parameter to pass the client-provided model through. |
```

Author: Applied (used "Omit this parameter" wording).

   | `host` and `port` | The provider's API host and port. Use `443` for HTTPS endpoints. |

>    | `path` | The provider's chat completions path. Omit it for providers that use the standard `/v1/chat/completions` path. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `path` | The provider's chat completions path. Omit this parameter for providers that use the standard `/v1/chat/completions` path. |
```

Author: Applied.

    }' | jq
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab tabName="Port-forward for local testing" %}}
   ```sh
   curl "localhost:8080/llm" -H content-type:application/json -d '{
      "model": "<your-model>",
      "messages": [
        {
          "role": "user",
          "content": "Explain retrieval-augmented generation in one sentence."
        }
      ]
    }' | jq
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

## Other OpenAI-compatible providers

### Perplexity example {#perplexity}

[Perplexity](https://www.perplexity.ai/) exposes an OpenAI-compatible API for search-augmented models and uses the standard chat completions path, so you do not need to set `path`.

```yaml
kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
apiVersion: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/api-version.md" >}}
kind: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}}
metadata:
  name: perplexity
  namespace: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
spec:
  ai:
    provider:
      openai:
        model: sonar
      host: api.perplexity.ai
      port: 443
  policies:
    auth:
      secretRef:
        name: perplexity-secret
    tls:
      sni: api.perplexity.ai
EOF
```

### Generic OpenAI-compatible endpoint {#generic-openai-compatible-endpoint}

> Use this template when the provider exposes the OpenAI Chat Completions API but is not in the table.

Reviewer: > but is not in the table

What table? And what isn't there? The API?

Author: Good catch — it meant the "Built-in OpenAI-compatible providers" table earlier on the page. Reworded to: "Use this template when the provider exposes the OpenAI Chat Completions API but is not listed in the [Built-in OpenAI-compatible providers](#built-in-openai-compatible-providers) table."

```yaml
apiVersion: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/api-version.md" >}}
kind: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}}
metadata:
  name: generic-openai
  namespace: {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
spec:
  ai:
    provider:
      openai:
        model: <upstream-model-name>
      host: api.example.com
      port: 443
      path: /v1/chat/completions
  policies:
    auth:
      secretRef:
        name: provider-secret
    tls:
      sni: api.example.com
```

Use the following fields to adapt the template:

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|

> | `ai.provider.openai.model` | Optional upstream model override. Omit it to pass the client-provided model through. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ai.provider.openai.model` | Optional upstream model override. Omit this parameter to pass the client-provided model through. |
```

Author: Applied.

| `host` and `port` | Required target address for the external provider endpoint. |

> | `path` | The provider's chat completions path. Omit it for the standard `/v1/chat/completions` path. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `path` | The provider's chat completions path. Omit this parameter for the standard `/v1/chat/completions` path. |
```

Author: Applied.
